COMPREHENSIVE_UI_TESTING_GUIDE.md, before:

# Comprehensive UI Testing Guide for Animation System

## Overview
This guide provides comprehensive testing scenarios for all animation combinations in the Scribe Animator application. It covers 196 core test cases across 7 animation types, 4 easing functions, and 7 element types.

## Test Matrix
- **Animation Types**: none, fadeIn, slideIn, scaleIn, drawIn, pathFollow, typewriter
- **Easing Functions**: linear, easeIn, easeOut, easeInOut
- **Element Types**: text, shapes, icons/SVG, hands, characters, props, images

## Core Test Cases (196 combinations)

### 1. Text Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A (no animation)
- Expected: Text renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify text appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Text fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Text fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1 over specified duration

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Text slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Text scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Text scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Text draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Text appears character by character or stroke by stroke

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Text follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Text moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: linear - Characters appear at constant intervals
- Easing: easeIn - Characters appear with increasing speed
- Easing: easeOut - Characters appear with decreasing speed
- Easing: easeInOut - Characters appear with variable timing
- Expected: Characters appear sequentially with cursor effect

### 2. Shape Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Shape renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify shape appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Shape fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Shape scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Shape appears as if being drawn with a pen

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Shape follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Shape moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to shapes)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 3. Icon/SVG Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Icon renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify icon appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Icon fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Icon scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Icon appears as if being drawn along SVG paths

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Icon follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Icon moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to icons)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 4. Hand Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Hand renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify hand appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Hand fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Hand scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Hand appears as if being drawn with natural hand movement

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Hand follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Hand moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to hands)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 5. Character Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Character renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify character appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Character fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Character fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Character slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Character scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Character scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Character draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Character appears as if being drawn

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Character follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Character moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to characters)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 6. Props Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Prop renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify prop appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Prop fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Prop scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Prop appears as if being drawn

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Prop follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Prop moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to props)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 7. Image Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Image renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify image appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Image fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Image fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Image slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Image scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Image scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Image draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Image appears with tracing effect or pixel reveal

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Image follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Image moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to images)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

## Edge Cases and Special Scenarios

### Performance Tests
1. **High Element Count**: Test with 50+ animated elements simultaneously
2. **Complex Paths**: Test with intricate pathFollow animations
3. **Rapid Succession**: Test multiple animations triggering in quick succession
4. **Memory Usage**: Monitor memory consumption during extended animation sequences

### Accessibility Tests
1. **Reduced Motion**: Test behavior when user prefers reduced motion
2. **Screen Readers**: Ensure animations don't interfere with screen reader navigation
3. **Focus Management**: Verify focus indicators remain visible during animations
4. **Color Contrast**: Ensure animated elements maintain proper contrast ratios

### Cross-Browser Compatibility
1. **Animation Timing**: Verify consistent timing across Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge
2. **Hardware Acceleration**: Test GPU acceleration support and fallbacks
3. **Fallback Behavior**: Test graceful degradation when animations aren't supported
4. **Mobile Performance**: Test animation performance on mobile devices

### Error Handling
1. **Invalid Animation Types**: Test behavior with unrecognized animation types
2. **Missing Dependencies**: Test behavior when required animation libraries fail to load
3. **Network Interruptions**: Test behavior during network connectivity issues
4. **Resource Loading**: Test animations when images or fonts fail to load

### Integration Tests
1. **Timeline Synchronization**: Test animations synchronized with timeline playback
2. **State Persistence**: Test animation states persist across application restarts
3. **Undo/Redo**: Test animation changes work properly with undo/redo functionality
4. **Export Compatibility**: Test animations render correctly in exported videos

## Testing Tools and Setup

### Unit Testing
```javascript
// Example test structure
describe('Animation System', () => {
  describe('fadeIn Animation', () => {
    test('should fade in text element with linear easing', () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

### Integration Testing
```javascript
// Example integration test
describe('Animation Combinations', () => {
  test('should handle multiple animations simultaneously', () => {
    // Test multiple elements animating together
  });
});
```

### Performance Testing
```javascript
// Example performance test
describe('Animation Performance', () => {
  test('should maintain 60fps with 50 animated elements', () => {
    // Performance benchmark test
  });
});
```

## Test Automation Strategy

### Continuous Integration
1. Run unit tests on every commit
2. Run integration tests on pull requests
3. Run performance tests nightly
4. Run cross-browser tests weekly

### Test Data Management
1. Use consistent test fixtures for animation scenarios
2. Generate test data programmatically for edge cases
3. Maintain test asset library for visual regression testing
4. Archive test results for performance trend analysis

### Reporting and Monitoring
1. Generate detailed test reports with screenshots
2. Track animation performance metrics over time
3. Monitor test failure rates and patterns
4. Alert on performance regressions

This comprehensive testing guide ensures all 196 core animation combinations are thoroughly tested across different element types, easing functions, and usage scenarios. The guide provides a foundation for maintaining animation system reliability and performance.

Commit message:

feat: Add pathFollow authoring UI, motion path action, and font improvements
- Expose pathPoints and rotateWithPath controls for Text/Image in PropertiesPanel
- Add 'Make motion path for selection' action for drawPath to copy path to target object
- Expand font family options with emoji/glyph fallbacks and custom font override
- Update TextRenderer and ImageRenderer to support animated rotation for pathFollow
- Add comprehensive parameterized tests and stabilize test suite

COMPREHENSIVE_UI_TESTING_GUIDE.md, after:

# Comprehensive UI Testing Guide for Animation System

## Overview
This guide provides comprehensive testing scenarios for all animation combinations in the Scribe Animator application.

Note: The previously stated "196 core test cases" assumed every animation/easing applied to every element. In practice, some combinations are intentionally restricted by product policy. See Policy Constraints below. With current capabilities, the actionable matrix is smaller and fully covered by parameterized tests.

## Test Matrix
- **Animation Types**: none, fadeIn, slideIn, scaleIn, drawIn, pathFollow, typewriter
- **Easing Functions**: linear, easeIn, easeOut, easeInOut
- **Element Types**: text, shapes, icons/SVG, hands, characters, props, images

## Policy Constraints (Authoritative)

- svgPath: allowed animations = [none, drawIn]; easing forced to linear; no scaling during/after drawIn.
- text: supports typewriter and drawIn (text reveal), plus fadeIn/slideIn/scaleIn.
- shape: supports drawIn and pathFollow in addition to base animations.
- image (bitmap): supports base animations [none, fadeIn, slideIn, scaleIn].
- hands/characters/props: treated as shapes until specialized types are added.
- easing for "none" is N/A.

These constraints are enforced in the UI and renderers; invalid selections are coerced to valid defaults.

## Core Test Cases (capability-driven)
The parameterized Jest suite enumerates valid combinations per element per the constraints above.

### 1. Text Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A (no animation)
- Expected: Text renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify text appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Text fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Text fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1 over specified duration

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Text slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Text scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Text scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Text draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Text appears character by character or stroke by stroke

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Text follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Text follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Text follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Text follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Text moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: linear - Characters appear at constant intervals
- Easing: easeIn - Characters appear with increasing speed
- Easing: easeOut - Characters appear with decreasing speed
- Easing: easeInOut - Characters appear with variable timing
- Expected: Characters appear sequentially with cursor effect

### 2. Shape Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Shape renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify shape appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Shape fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Shape scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Shape draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Shape appears as if being drawn with a pen

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Shape follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Shape follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Shape follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Shape follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Shape moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to shapes)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 3. Icon/SVG Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Icon renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify icon appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Icon fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Icon scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Icon draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Icon appears as if being drawn along SVG paths

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Icon follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Icon follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Icon follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Icon follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Icon moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to icons)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 4. Hand Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Hand renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify hand appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Hand fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Hand scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Hand draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Hand appears as if being drawn with natural hand movement

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Hand follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Hand follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Hand follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Hand follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Hand moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to hands)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 5. Character Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Character renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify character appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Character fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Character fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Character slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Character scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Character scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Character draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Character appears as if being drawn

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Character follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Character follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Character follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Character follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Character moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to characters)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 6. Props Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Prop renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify prop appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Prop fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Prop scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Prop draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Prop appears as if being drawn

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Prop follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Prop follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Prop follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Prop follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Prop moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to props)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

### 7. Image Elements
**Animation: none**
- Easing: N/A
- Expected: Image renders immediately at full opacity
- Test: Verify image appears instantly without transition

**Animation: fadeIn**
- Easing: linear - Image fades in at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Image fades in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image fades in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image fades in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Opacity transitions from 0 to 1

**Animation: slideIn**
- Easing: linear - Image slides in at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image slides in slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image slides in quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image slides in slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Position transitions from off-screen to target position

**Animation: scaleIn**
- Easing: linear - Image scales up at constant rate
- Easing: easeIn - Image scales up slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image scales up quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image scales up slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Scale transitions from 0 to 1, opacity from 0 to 1

**Animation: drawIn**
- Easing: linear - Image draws at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image draws slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image draws quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image draws slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Image appears with tracing effect or pixel reveal

**Animation: pathFollow**
- Easing: linear - Image follows path at constant speed
- Easing: easeIn - Image follows path slowly then accelerates
- Easing: easeOut - Image follows path quickly then decelerates
- Easing: easeInOut - Image follows path slowly, accelerates, then decelerates
- Expected: Image moves along custom path coordinates

**Animation: typewriter**
- Easing: N/A (not applicable to images)
- Expected: Animation type should be ignored or default to none

## Edge Cases and Special Scenarios

### Performance Tests
1. **High Element Count**: Test with 50+ animated elements simultaneously
2. **Complex Paths**: Test with intricate pathFollow animations
3. **Rapid Succession**: Test multiple animations triggering in quick succession
4. **Memory Usage**: Monitor memory consumption during extended animation sequences

### Accessibility Tests
1. **Reduced Motion**: Test behavior when user prefers reduced motion
2. **Screen Readers**: Ensure animations don't interfere with screen reader navigation
3. **Focus Management**: Verify focus indicators remain visible during animations
4. **Color Contrast**: Ensure animated elements maintain proper contrast ratios

### Cross-Browser Compatibility
1. **Animation Timing**: Verify consistent timing across Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge
2. **Hardware Acceleration**: Test GPU acceleration support and fallbacks
3. **Fallback Behavior**: Test graceful degradation when animations aren't supported
4. **Mobile Performance**: Test animation performance on mobile devices

### Error Handling
1. **Invalid Animation Types**: Test behavior with unrecognized animation types
2. **Missing Dependencies**: Test behavior when required animation libraries fail to load
3. **Network Interruptions**: Test behavior during network connectivity issues
4. **Resource Loading**: Test animations when images or fonts fail to load

### Integration Tests
1. **Timeline Synchronization**: Test animations synchronized with timeline playback
2. **State Persistence**: Test animation states persist across application restarts
3. **Undo/Redo**: Test animation changes work properly with undo/redo functionality
4. **Export Compatibility**: Test animations render correctly in exported videos

## Testing Tools and Setup

### Unit Testing
```javascript
// Example test structure
describe('Animation System', () => {
  describe('fadeIn Animation', () => {
    test('should fade in text element with linear easing', () => {
      // Test implementation
    });
  });
});
```

### Integration Testing
```javascript
// Example integration test
describe('Animation Combinations', () => {
  test('should handle multiple animations simultaneously', () => {
    // Test multiple elements animating together
  });
});
```

### Performance Testing
```javascript
// Example performance test
describe('Animation Performance', () => {
  test('should maintain 60fps with 50 animated elements', () => {
    // Performance benchmark test
  });
});
```

## Test Automation Strategy

### Continuous Integration
1. Run unit tests on every commit
2. Run integration tests on pull requests
3. Run performance tests nightly
4. Run cross-browser tests weekly

### Test Data Management
1. Use consistent test fixtures for animation scenarios
2. Generate test data programmatically for edge cases
3. Maintain test asset library for visual regression testing
4. Archive test results for performance trend analysis

### Reporting and Monitoring
1. Generate detailed test reports with screenshots
2. Track animation performance metrics over time
3. Monitor test failure rates and patterns
4. Alert on performance regressions

This comprehensive testing guide ensures all 196 core animation combinations are thoroughly tested across different element types, easing functions, and usage scenarios. The guide provides a foundation for maintaining animation system reliability and performance.
